Taking its birth in response to the rising demands for professionally trained engineers, managers and technologists and 
health professionals, Sambhram Institutions have developed fast and features a superlative infrastructure and a fine 
overall ambience for professional learning and personality development today.




Read more
COURSES
BE - Electronics & Communication Engineering
BE - Computer Science & Engineering
BE - Information Science & Engineering
BE - Mechanical Engineering
BE - Civil Engineering
MBA
MCA
Research Center
M.Tech - Digital Communication Engineering (ECE)
M.Tech - Computer Science & Engineering (CSE)
M.Tech - Mechanical
M.Tech - Civil

Computer Science & Engineering is the study of theoretical and practical foundations of information processing and computations of practical problems and its solutions. Computer science has many sub-fields; such as computer graphics, emphasize the computation of specific results, while others, such as computational complexity theory, study the properties of computational problems. Some others focus on the challenges in implementing those computations. For example, programming language theory studies approaches to describing computations, while computer programming applies specific programming languages to solve specific computational problems.


The programme gives the students a firm footing into the intricacies of this technology such as circuits, design, structures language, processors, operating systems, database, management, simulation, modeling etc. Manufacturers of computers, electronic gadgetry, communication products, highly specialized processors such as in automobile, aircraft, satellite, shipping etc requires trained computer science engineers.


About the Department

The Department of Computer Science & Engineering of SaIT started in the year 2001. It provides the opportunity for the students to develop a firm foundation in mathematics, science, and design methodology applied to the disciplines of Computer Science & Engineering. It creates an ambience of academic excellence in new innovative ideas, research, development and innovation in emerging trends of computer and information technology.


Standard, constructive rules and procedures are followed in day-to-day operations. The department head is freely accessible to students and faculty members for consultation, sharing of new ideas, and general guidance. A high degree of team spirit is developed and sustained in the department.


The Department of Computer Science & Engineering (CSE) has grown exponentially over the last few years, evolving to meet demands of the 21st century. Department is well equipped with advanced laboratories, class rooms, seminar halls and well experienced faculty members. To improve the quality of students it maintains proctoring and monitoring of students. We regularly meet parents, hold alumni gatherings and technical events throughout the year. We have a team of highly qualified and dedicated teaching faculty well supported by a group of technical creative approach. Department provides Undergraduate (BE-CSE), post graduate (M.TECH- CSE) and Research (PhD) program.


  BE CSE:
The objective of this course is to develop abilities among student community to understand the present industrial issues and to critically interpret the diverse viewpoints regarding possible futures.

Developing and understanding of future techniques and approaches, including their limitations and applications.

Exploring a range of perspectives and styles of how various people and organizations approach future studies and to become acquainted with the future literature.

Gaining experiences with techniques and technologies that should be useful in their own future.


M.Tech CSE:
The M.Tech program started in the year 2014. The specialization offered is computer science and engineering (CSE). Our M.Tech program is aimed at developing experts with technical capabilities and managerial abilities. The educational objectives of M.Tech programs are:

To prepare graduates who will be successful professionals in industry, government, academia, research, entrepreneurial pursuit and consulting firms.

To prepare graduates who will contribute to society as well educated, expressive, ethical and responsible citizens with proven expertise.

To create experts and professionals in computer technology with a view on developing skills those are able to match the demands of the complexities of present generation IT industry.


Ph.D CSE:
Research and Development is most essential part for engineering education. VTU Research Centre in the Department of Computer Science & Engineering was started in the year 2009-10, with provision for Ph.D. (Full Time / Part Time). Since then the research facility is available for research scholars to carry out research in their specific area. Students and research scholars are encouraged to take up inter disciplinary research in various domains like data mining, computer vision, natural language processing, networks etc. Student innovation center is open 24X7 to carry out innovative projects.


VISION
TO PROFESSIONALLY DRIVE AND TRAIN THE YOUNG MINDS BY PLACING THEM IN FOREFRONT OF TECHNOLOGICAL, SCIENTIFIC & ENGINEERING DISCIPLINE TO GLORIFY THE FUTURE OF SAMBHRAM INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AS A SHINING STAR IN THE WORLD OF COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY.

MISSION

TO ACT AS THE NURTURING GROUND FOR YOUNG PROFESSIONALS WHO SEEK TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE AND CREATE A TALENT POOL FOR VARIOUS INDUSTRIES SO THAT THERE MAY BE SYNERGISTIC GROWTH FOR BOTH.


TO ESTABLISH STATE-OF-THE-ART FACILITIES MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF SPECIFIED CURRICULUM TO INCULCATE LEARNING PROCESS OF THE STUDENTS.

TO PROVIDE EXPOSURE OF LATEST TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGIES IN THE AREA OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGIES.

TO PRODUCE SUCCESSFUL GRADUATES WITH PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND COMMITMENT TO LIFELONG LEARNING.

Sambhram Institute of Technology is an offshoot of the Sambhram Group, widely known for its services in education, health, housing, property development, hotels and resorts. Sambhram Education Trust is the educational arm of the Group and it runs several professional institutions in Bangalore, KGF in Karnataka state and Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh.

SaIT is a flagship Sambhram Institution started in 2001, promoted by entrepreneurs, bureaucrats and technocrats from a variety of backgrounds. Thanks to this strong management base and an equally strong resource base, SaIT enjoys a premier status today in technology education. As a result, students from far flung areas of India and other countries are entering the portals of SaIT in increasing numbers.

SaIT is located in the silicon city, Bangalore, just a few kilometers from the internationally renowned Indian Institute of Science (IISC), and is well connected by road to all major city centers. It is very near to railway station and International Airport. The college is situated within the sprawling eight acres estate of Sambhram Education Trust. Set in an idyllic atmosphere rich in greenery, the campus is ideal for academic, research, cultural and sports activities. The college building housing the class rooms, laboratories, workshops, administrative blocks, Libraries , Cafeteria and other units.

SaIT since from its inception achieved several mile stones. At present SaIT has got engineering branches with an intake of 180 in Computer Sc. & Engineering, Electronics & Commn. Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Civil Engineering. SaIT has an intake of 120 for Information Sc. & Engineering, MCA and MBA. From 2010-11 academic years II Shift course with intake of 60 each in Electronics & communication engg and Computer Sc. & Engineering. Mechanical and Civil engineering has been started. In during 2009 the departments of ECE, CSE and ISE and in 2011 departments of Mechanical.

The college has separate hostels for boys and girls and an exclusive hostel for International students. Adequate sports facility is provided with well equipped indoor sports and gymnasium and outdoor playground.

A State of the art amphitheatre and an indoor auditorium provide ample opportunity to the students to explore their talents and indulge in cultural activities.

A high-speed internet centre provided a window into the world of knowledge while a sophisticated library equipped with access to e-journals through the digital library and thousands of books and journals helps nurture the thirst for knowledge in students.

Every student is trained and placed through the Training and Placement cell. Many leading multinational companies conduct campus interviews.
 
KEY FEATURES :
 
Established in 2001 with four engineering branches namely Computer Science, Electronics & Communication, Information Science & Mechanical, today SaIT offers 5 Under Graduate Engineering programmes, 2 Master Degree programmes and 5 Doctoral programmes.
Located 13 km from the heart of Bangalore City – the Silicon Valley of India, on Hesarghatta Road.
Sprawling campus spread over an area of 10 acres set in sylvan surroundings.
Provides an ideal ambience to stimulate the teaching-learning process, helping in bringing out skilled and disciplined Engineers.
Rated among top Engineering Institutions in the Bangalore.
Current annual student intake for Undergraduate Programmes & Post Graduate Programmes in Engineering is around 1200.
Highly qualified and dedicated faculty.
NSS, Sports, Cultural Activities are given prime importance for overall development of the students.
Almost around 90% of the eligible students are placed through campus selection